the a35 maintains a comfortable cruising
speed but there's the usual crop of
lorries that just won't be passed and
which always manage to turn up just as
the road gets narrower and more wine
all the same I live the little car like
this we'll find a chance to overtake
sooner than most
the end of the first leg Lyme Regis and
about time for the first filler Leslie
Webb chooses the pup just one more of
those meticulous RAC rules he watches
the filling carefully
he checks the filler tube for the exact
level and the boot is again closed and
locked now we have some figures for a
first reckoning of consumption it works
out of nearly 50 miles per gallon but so
far we've had the worst of the weather
and the average is likely to be better
than that
through the town and we've still kept
that 20 minutes ahead of schedule the
plan is to reach Van Brie roughly in the
middle of the second leg before stopping
for the night evenings drawing on as we
turn northwards but the winds still
holding as we reach Broome and now of
course the longer it holds the better
growing steadily darken huh and there's
still another two or three hours driving
ahead
once again that's part of the plan every
factor a normal driver has to contend
with on a run of this kind must be
included in the test and finishing in
darkness is one of them
with nightfall the wind has dropped but
we can't complain it gave us a little
help from Lyme Regis to Froome and the
weather forecast predicts a more health
in the morning
Banbury are stopping place for the night
a lock-up has been booked for the car
off-again after breakfast Leslie Webb
took the lock-up keys to bed with him
all the keys for not even the RAC rules
demand that he should sit up all night
with the car
by the feel of it the Met boys were
right there's quite a breeze already and
the following winter Lincoln will make
us all square on the weather fair enough
that means no one will be able to say
the wind affected the average very much
one way or the other talking about
ridges our driver joseph Lowery has his
own opinions about the Sakonnet or the
other
talking of averages our driver joseph
Lowery has his own opinions about this
economy test business his instructions
are to use normal driving methods which
means no coasting downhill with the
engine idling or switched off he sticks
to the rules of course and the RA sees
at his elbow to see that he does but he
maintains that whatever the result of
the trial a careful driver could do as
much as ten miles a gallon more by using
all the determined petrol saving dodges
still a test is a test and the idea is
to find out what the a35 will do without
the dodges anything that coasting will
save over and above that is so much more
in your pocket
Lincoln the end of the second leg and by
now we're nearly an hour ahead about 30
mile an hour shed you
this will be the last fill-up before
London and it gives us another chance to
check our consumption and as we expected
that wind has tipped the balance we are
bettering the 50 miles per gallon target
but we mustn't count our chickens too
soon the trial isn't over yet
all set for the last and shortest lay
the home run southwards to London we'll
need every bit of that hours advantage
because from here on the traffic will be
heavier and there's quite a lot of
London between us and the Fulham garage
rolling down the road towards Bourne
we're meeting our full quarter of Moritz
and now there's a strong Gale in our
face so it looks as though we're not
going to average out on the weather
after all all the same we've still got
most of that hour in hand
night falling on the Great North row and
there's not many miles to go now
into London and the evening traffic's
building up we'll have to cross the West
End in the thick of it
and now Fulham's insight at lux 524
miles are behind us in two days driving
all we have to do now is to fill up
exactly to the original mark noting how
much we have to put in make the
necessary subtractions and divisions and
we'll have the answer by the way
although this has been an economy test
pure and simple it's worth mentioning
that in the words of the RAC report for
the whole of the period during which the
car was under observation it gave no
trouble whatsoever
and now for the final verdict an average
for the whole run of fifty three point
seven miles per gallon at thirty one
point six miles an hour for economy
combined with reliability and comfort
this is proof positive that the baby of
the Austin range is still as it always
has been the finest value in the world
you